Kind of looks like we're going to a
rave.
>> I'm a father to two beautiful daughters.
I'm also a husband, a son, a cyclist, a
citizen.
>> Thank you so [music] much. It's going to
look amazing. All right, let's go.
>> Our inventions have filled the world as
we know it.
>> Concrete [music] is the second most used
material in the world.
>> Unfortunately, some of them come with an
environmental price tag. They do a lot
of illegal mining [music] on that river.
>> But I believe that our drive to innovate
can meet the moment. [laughter]
>> Inventors [music] are the key not only
for the environment but also for the
humanity.
>> We are genetically [music] enhancing
plants to absorb metal in the soil.
>> The moment that you actually have CO2
stored is a very happy moment that
people and science will see us through.
We're trying to leave the world better
than what we found it in.
>> We change the world. Yes. This is very
nice.
>> I'm Nikolai Costa Waldo and this is an
optimist's guide to the planet.
[music]
To be human is to innovate.
That is a basic human quality. always
finding ways to make things work. And we
see that over and over again.
Our inventions have given us [music]
both wonders of the modern world and
threats to our very existence.
[music]
Innovation
[music] and science is also what gives
you hope and reason for optimism because
there's always someone who's going to
who's able to to find a solution to
crack a a problem.
One huge challenge here in Lima is that
water is too scarce to waste yet often
too polluted to drink.
We always assume that water is in is
[music] the whatever pollution goes into
it's just a drop in the ocean. That
classic saying, right? But what do you
do when once it's really polluted? How
do you then reverse that?
>> We're meeting inventors who are taking
on the challenge of water pollution.
And the best thing, my wife Nuga is with
me.
>> And she makes the show better. She makes
my life better. Yeah, at least I try to.
>> No, it's on camera.
>> Yeah,
>> Marino. Hi, Nikolai and Yoshi. Nice to
meet you.
>> It's a pleasure to meet you, Yoshi.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> So, what's wrong with this?
>> Yo, this beautiful
marine water.
>> Yeah. I mean it's beautiful right now
but once we explain you what is the
problem you'll be shocked that green is
not good.
>> So this place what is unique about it?
>> So we're here in Pantano
and it's one of the most important
wetlands in our country.
>> [music]
>> since ancient times pera and Inca times.
It is the major source of water here in
Lima, not only for human consumption but
also for agricultural aspects.
>> So is there a problem here in this
water? What is the problem?
It's affecting not only this wetland but
all the wetlands around.
>> You don't have big wastewater treatment
centers here.
>> The wastewater treatment plants in Peru
are built to only treat 5 to 10% of the
waste water. [music]
[music]
isun.
>> I have to ask you, [music] what is this
relationship?
>> Oh, family. Uncle
>> and a nephew. Yes.
>> How long have you guys worked together?
>> From 2010.
>> Yeah.
>> So, you were very young when you
started.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh, 15 years ago.
>> As a teenager.
>> As a kid.
>> As a kid. Yeah, for him it was like I'm
his nephew but also kind of like a his
son.
>> Mhm.
>> Since my mom separated from my dad at a
very young age,
>> the only father figure I had was my
uncle. He used to carry me to [music]
the wetlands so I can learn from nature
and to respect it and value it as the
same way he learned it from his father,
my grandfather.
So you lived here and then you went to
to Japan and studied. Yes. What were you
studying? Phean
>> nanotechnology. I understand that it's
it's very small things.
Any kind of molecule or component that
is 10,000 times smaller than the normal
bubble that we see in the soda cans. Why
he started working with that is because
it's very easy to work with the visible
parts the visible pollutants but what
happens the ones that we cannot see on
the naked eye but today we'll be
focusing on the proest technologies we
have
>> which is the microbubble system
>> how can we see it I'm so curious
>> so actually we need to go to the testing
field
>> it looks nasty
>> it it it is
>> the introduction of polluted water from
the waste water generates micronutrients
and that micronutrients will contribute
to more algae formation and because
there is more algae formation and more
bacterial formation it will take out all
the oxygen in [music] the water.
>> Is there any way to measure how polluted
this is?
>> Of course.
>> Uhhuh.
>> If you want you can help Marino.
>> I would love to help.
>> It looks like lemonade.
>> Yeah. or
>> morning. [laughter]
>> Yeah,
>> you probably won't like the flavor if
you drink it.
>> I can already smell it.
>> Whenever we talk a healthy level for the
biodiversity, it must be above 10 mg per
liter.
>> Per liter.
>> All right, let's try it.
So, if you see on the screen, it's
around 7. And that means that it's low
on oxygen.
>> How do you clean that? It's not an easy
thing to do, is it?
>> Don't want to brag about it. But
actually, for us, it's very easy.
>> I mean, that is a humble brag if ever
there was one.
>> Yeah.
>> People say, "I don't want to brag." You
know, you're about to brag, [laughter]
>> but I want to seek.
>> Could you help me if
>> Can I touch it?
>> Yes, of course.
>> So, this actually is our secret formula
of organic compound. It's called PM,
which is a powder that we develop with
only plants.
>> Okay. It's a little heavy.
>> It's just easier with just [laughter]
>> So, this is a secret ingredient.
>> Mhm. You told your nephew, right?
>> So, so how many how many people know
this?
>> Uh, only me. [laughter]
It's
>> just a little tease. Oh, that's that's
perfect.
A little shake it.
>> You're seeing the bigger particles right
there.
>> All the dispersed algae are getting
gather up. Getting
>> thicker and thicker. Huh.
>> The algae we trapped are the algae that
are capturing all the oxygen which is
lethal to the aquatic life.
>> It's full of nutrients.
>> It's full of nutrients. And then you
have all this stuff floating on the
surface and you can just scoop it up.
>> Yes. Like this.
>> Yeah.
>> Look at that.
>> Like this. Yeah. You can just grab it.
>> Foamy.
>> Yeah.
>> No smell.
>> Yeah. Different.
>> And now it's much clearer.
>> But what happens to the invisible
components? Virus, bacteria,
microorganisms that still lives in this
water. That one we will attack with the
micronobble system. Would you like to
know what a micronobble is? I would very
much like to know what a micro nano
bubble is.
>> It involves getting into the water.
>> Yes.
>> Would you like it?
>> Yes, of course.
>> Great.
>> Okay, let's get in the water. Okay.
>> Yeah, I'm a little too tall for this.
>> Yes, it's very nice. [laughter]
>> It's great. Oh, it's fine. It's perfect.
Let's go.
>> Okay, let's go.
>> Oh, but first the
>> machine.
>> Yeah, machine. My god.
So when we developed any kind of
technology, we always think that this
must not disrupt the natural healing
process. It must boost it. It must not
threaten the [music] good microorganisms
but kill or eliminate the bad
microorganisms.
>> Okay. Let's go to the Okay.
[laughter]
>> This is you sink in. And the smell.
Yeah. Oh yeah.
>> Okay. [laughter]
I'm not going to dance with you right
now.
>> Come on.
Be [laughter] careful.
You have to see a difference. This is a
fine bubble.
>> Yeah. Yes.
You your hand.
>> So you're going to submerge your hand
right there.
Yeah.
>> This is a negative property.
>> [music]
[music]
>> When the bubbles rise to the surface,
the sun's UV rays destroy the attached
contaminants.
Also those bubbles, the nanobubbles will
help oxygen all the uh lake here.
>> You see all the bubble?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> All over.
>> Yeah.
>> So, how long has this been here now? 10
minutes.
>> Yes.
The powder.
>> Yes. The magic powder.
>> Yeah. Ed powder [laughter]
into my kitchen. [laughter]
>> Yes. You try. You try.
>> Okay.
>> There you go.
>> Oh my god.
[music]
>> It's empty. Uh
>> full fuel.
Look at that.
>> It's everywhere now. The foam,
>> those floating things, the foam are the
organic particles that are gather up.
>> How long will it take for you to clean
this whole thing up?
>> And then you have to scoop up. Yeah,
>> it cost a big job though.
>> Yeah,
>> I have a machine to vacuum.
>> Yeah, vacuum.
>> Yeah, really?
>> Yeah, that's what I thought.
>> This magic [music] powder, you put it in
the water with the cool gone and then
you clean it.
>> I love the idea that this will work
>> and I love the energy of these guys.
>> Amazing energy.
>> Everything is possible.
>> He has a depth of knowledge.
>> Yeah. and an enthusiast, which is just
what we need.
>> Optimistic.
>> Yeah.
>> And next time they're going to have
maybe a your size.
>> That would be great. But we
>> In Denmark, we call this
>> an Alford. [laughter]
>> Oh, a wedgie.
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah. They gave me a wedgie.
>> How proud are you of this machine?
>> [music]
>> So, and we're up to 70% close to develop
that technology.
>> Oh, so when do you think you'll you'll
have that?
>> We will call you [laughter]
We have already cleaned with our
technology 25 wetlands.
For us, it is important to treat it
because it's the greatest gift we can
give to [music] the biodiversity here.
the birds, the fishes, the land
creatures. [music] And lastly, for us,
for the next generation,
for communities without the
infrastructure or resources for water
[music] treatment plants, Marino's
invention, if scaled up, could
potentially be transformative.
But true change can't stop at the W's
edge.
Over the last century, the number of
people living in cities has increased
dramatically
by 4 to 500%.
As more of us crowd into urban spaces,
how we live and build matters more than
ever.
Roterdam is known for its bold, modern
architecture. All built in the last 80
years because the city was almost
completely destroyed in World War II.
[music]
Hey Ka,
>> I'm here in Roderdam and there's this
event happening.
>> It looked like the commemoration of the
Roderdam Blitz when German bombers
destroyed much of the city during World
War II. Tens of thousands of people lost
their homes. It's a significant day as
people remember that tragic event and
how the city rebuilt itself.
>> [music]
[music]
>> This town and so many towns were
completely rebuilt, [music]
which speaks to the incredible spirit of
humans, right? Like we, you know, knock
us down, we'll come right back up.
Now what we know is we need so much more
construction globally.
The problem of [music] course is that
it's one of the biggest polluters when
it comes to CO2.
Construction drives 36% of global CO2
emissions and concrete alone makes up
8%.
Now a startup says it can flip that by
reinventing [music] concrete.
This is very exciting.
>> Marta.
>> Oh, hi. Sorry.
>> Sorry.
>> Hi.
>> Hi. I'm Nikolai.
>> I am Marta. Nice to meet you. Nice to
meet you.
>> Welcome to Pebble.
>> Just like a pebble on the beach.
>> That's right. Just like a pebble on the
beach. Welcome. Safety first.
>> Safety first. Oh, I need one of these.
It's going to look amazing.
>> And here is a safety jacket. This is
fireproof and also kind of fashionable.
>> In a nutshell, what do you do? What do
pebble do?
>> We turn concrete into a material that
can store CO2 forever. And concrete is I
don't know if you know this, but it's
the second most used material in the
world.
>> We use a lot.
>> We use a lot of it
>> and we need to use a lot more in the
future.
>> That's right. So, the more we build, the
more we'll pollute unless we can turn
into a carbon sink and therefore do do
good by building more. In concrete, you
have three main solid ingredients.
>> Yeah.
>> You have cement, which is the big
poller.
>> You have fine sand, and you have gravel.
>> Yeah.
>> And what we do is that we've invented a
way to trap CO2 in a substitute for
traditional cement.
>> So, what we do here, we harness a
process that [music] happens in nature
already. Certain rocks like olivine
absorb CO2 from the atmosphere. [music]
We just accelerated by about 10 million
times.
>> 10 million times. Wow. But it all starts
in there.
>> It all starts in here. Yes. Uh this is
our mineralization lab.
>> Do you know what this reminds me of?
What? Skin products when they do
campaigns. Like a commercial. There's
always people in in white lab coats.
>> And you know they're actors. Are they
Are they actors or are they real?
>> I'm pretty sure that they're employed by
us. Yes. Louise.
>> Hi. How are you doing? Nice to meet you.
>> Nikolai. Nice to meet you.
>> Yeah. Very nice to meet you.
>> So, you're not an actor?
>> No, I'm not an actor. No, no, no. They
didn't pay me to be here. This is our
real Yeah, this is our real thing.
>> How long have you been here?
>> I've been here for one and a half year
already.
>> I was lucky to find Pebble and that
Pebble was looking for a researcher. And
what I do here is try to work on the
accelerated mineralization process that
we doing here. It's that whole thing she
Mara was talking about like yeah you
have been able to accelerate nature's
you know the normal thing that happens
in nature but by a million times.
>> Exactly. That's it.
>> But how did you do that?
>> So shall we walk to the next room? Let's
go.
>> Let's go.
>> So everything starts with this. This is
a rock that contains olivine in it and
which naturally absorbs CO2 from
atmosphere. We have engineered a way to
inject a lot of CO2 into Olivine really
fast. So it's locked away for good.
>> You want to see how it's done?
>> Yes, I want to see how it's done.
>> So first we have our prototype reactors
which we call coffee cup reactors.
>> All right. What is going on here?
>> So right now I'm filling up the coffee
cup reactor. That's very finely ground
olivine.
>> I'm going to put in the secret
additives.
>> You're not going to tell me what it is.
>> I'm I'm not going to tell you. No, no,
no, no. So, this is our olivine with the
chemicals.
>> Yeah.
>> Then I'm injecting CO2 and with the help
of the secret additives, it reacts with
the olivine.
We are going to increase the pressure
and temperature. All of that olivine
will be transformed into new minerals.
[snorts]
And then what happens after an hour and
a half? This stuff turns up. It's like
this gray slurry.
If we want to make concrete out of our
product, we have to convert it back to a
powdered form.
>> All right. So now we create a vacuum. So
the whole slurry is going to get pushed
through.
>> Do you have some of this after it's gone
through?
>> Yes. Okay.
So this is what we're looking at.
>> This is the final product which is you
can see it's a bit more fluffy.
>> Okay.
>> And this is what stores CO2.
>> This is the material that already
contains CO2. [music]
And this is the material that replaces
traditional cement.
>> It's a lightweight powder that can be
used to produce concrete. And I think
this can have a deep impact in society
with construction materials in general.
>> Why did you study concrete in the first
place?
>> It's a good question. Well, concrete, as
I told you, if you look around,
everything is made of concrete. So,
concrete is a very important piece for
our lives. I come from Brazil. Uh I
think last year we had floodings that
had never been seen before. This can
have an immediate impact for my nieces,
my nephews, my children in the future.
So it's a it's a very fulfilling thing
to do.
>> The moments that you actually have CO2
[music] stored. It's just a very happy
moment.
>> It's not just a research. It's not just
for fun. We're not just playing around.
We are really really doing this.
>> [music]
>> You got to have your hat on. [music]
There you go. So, now we're going to
move from a coffee cup scale [music] to
a big reaction.
>> Wonderful.
>> Your amazing operations team. Hi.
>> Hi. Nice to meet you.
>> Nice to meet you. I'm I'm very excited.
But now I want to see it. This is the
big coffee machine.
>> Exactly. Let's go to the reactor part.
>> Where are you from, by the way?
>> I'm from Colombia.
>> So, I've got Brazil, Holland.
>> Yes.
>> Colombia.
>> It's like 50 nationalities in this small
office, I would say.
>> Wow. That's incredible.
>> No one in the world has this kind of
technology. We have a partner that are
bringing our CO2 here and we inject the
CO2 that you see behind that and in the
future we want to scale up end to end
solution. That means that we're going to
have uh system capturing the CO2 from
the atmosphere.
>> So how much you produce in 24 hours?
>> In a day we are producing three tons. We
are scaling up to 10 tons. So in here
still and in the future we are scaling
up even bigger.
>> That is incredible.
Where does it come out?
>> I will show you. Yeah. No, it be
careful.
>> Can I touch it?
>> Yeah, you can take it. That is almost
dry. That is 76%
dried.
>> This is what you then put into the
concrete.
>> Correct. A back of this is is one ton.
>> One ton. So, how much CO2 is captured
here?
>> So, we are capturing around 250 kilos
per ton of
>> So, one quarter of this is CO2 capture.
>> Correct.
I'm just applauding.
>> Yeah,
>> we have a lot of potential just to grow
up everywhere.
It will change [music] the world. Yes.
>> Hello again.
>> Hello again. So this is where we make
sure that the product that is done over
there performs in concrete.
Now we going to measure the [music]
strength of this material.
>> [music]
>> Are you starting to work hard now?
>> Nice.
>> Okay.
After all the tests you do, your stuff
is as good as anything.
>> Yes. That's we are we are trying to
prove to our customers and that's what
we are observant
>> and you have the added benefit. Yes,
this piece here has CO2 that was in the
air stored inside it
>> and that will be stored
>> permanently.
>> It's a little souvenir.
>> Pebbles technology could permanently
trap hundreds of millions of tons of CO2
inside the buildings we live and work
in. The potential is obvious.
[music]
>> We're so deep into climate change that
we are seeing
>> Yeah.
>> the effects, right?
>> That's right.
>> Negative effects.
>> You think that we're acting in time? Are
we or are we too late?
>> I actually believe that given that it's
taken us five decades to make the mess
roughly five, six decades, let's say.
>> Yeah.
>> I think we can actually get rid of the
mess in half the time. Wow. I hope
you're right.
>> I think I think it's feasible and I
think it's just about how many brains we
put to the task working hard towards
that.
>> Thank you.
I look at cities at urban jungles and I
get a lot of anxiety of you know what is
[music] the environmental footprint that
our decisions have brought about. But
also I'm very hopeful. I mean technology
if built for the right reasons and in
the right ways is there to help us
thrive. I'd like to see society move
from a place of survival to place of
thriving and not just for a select few
percent but actually for much bigger
parts of the world.
>> I think I want to make the world better.
>> It's one of the biggest challenges of
our time and a profound change in
mindset
from putting technology first no matter
the cost to inventions that reverse the
damage we have done.
It's a race against time.
We need to make sure innovation benefits
everyone everywhere.
We're on our way to meet an inventor who
has a plan to save the rainforest,
ground zero for the climate crisis.
But the weather is not cooperating, so
we need to improvise.
>> The weather's getting bad.
>> And sometimes the unplanned moments turn
out to be the most meaningful ones.
Gracias.
>> Okay.
>> Thank you so much. You're welcome.
>> I don't know what the plan is, but I
know there's a reason they call it the
rainforest.
>> [music]
>> You see this is all forest. I don't know
if you actually managed to see a little
bit of a river down there.
>> Sure.
>> These rivers are a source of life for
all the local communities. Water [music]
fishing.
>> They do a lot of um illegal mining on
that river.
Is it gold they're after mainly or is it
>> on this river? Yeah, they're going for
gold.
Okay.
>> Considering it's illegal, you would
think it was much more hidden secret and
and nobody would know about it, but it
was just happening.
>> Yes.
>> But you all know about it.
>> As everybody knows, corruption is so big
that it's like [music] common people
like us. It's very little that we could
do is putting ourselves in risk if we
[music] did something.
There is a spot ahead
that um would probably be able to stop
and have a look if you're interested.
>> Let's hope the uh the rain stops so we
can get the drone out.
>> I brought you [music] here because this
is a safe location for us to try to fly
the drone and you can see from above.
>> Okay.
>> The extent [music] of the damage.
>> It has been raining so I don't know how
how it will be but we can try.
>> Sure.
Can I talk to her for a second?
>> Is that okay? My name is Nikolai. What's
your name?
>> Janet. Janet Janet.
>> Is this your place?
>> No.
>> Snacks.
>> Oh, you sell the snacks.
>> Snacks. [laughter]
>> Those are your snacks.
>> The yuka, the papa, the
>> She makes chips out of potato, plantain,
yuka.
>> [laughter]
>> All right. Maybe you can can you show me
because we show seeing this. Can you
explain what I'm seeing here?
God, don't got shut down.
>> What is What is this?
History repeating itself again and
again. The Spanish came for the gold.
>> That's correct.
>> Are you coming for the gold? Like
constant.
>> Yeah.
>> It never benefits the people.
>> Minimo.
This is not the only place in Ecuador.
This is happening many places.
>> Many places in Ecuador
are very strong in Ecuador.
>> The mining we come across in Ecuador is
an age-old problem.
We're sacrificing the environment for
the sake of extracting resources.
But what if we could invent a way to
flip that equation,
extract resources, and benefit the
environment?
>> Our chance encounter in Ecuador takes us
to France where a team of scientists are
working on doing just that.
>> I think optimism is not giving up.
That's what what I refuse to do. The
idea that we should just like be
complacent and go, "Oh, well, it's all
pretty bad. So, there's nothing we can
we can Oh, am I going too early? It's
the wrong turn." See, now this could
really give me cause for an Ah,
but I'm still optimistic that uh we will
uh make our final destination. We will
just be a little delayed.
We're in an electric car. We have this
massive shift towards um
electric [music] cars. One thing that we
need of course of batteries and a big
component of batteries is nickel. We
need to mine a lot of nickel and mining
is dirty.
But we need to mine. We need to do that.
Which is of course the big paradox.
Around the world we mine millions of
tons of metal every year.
3.7 million tons of that are nickel.
It's only going to skyrocket from here.
It's interesting then of course if you
can do it in a way that's not invasive
where you don't have to dig up mountains
>> genomines
Fabian hi
>> how are you doing
>> I'm good so why is it called genomines
>> uh well it's a word play between uh
genome
and mining um because we are genetically
enhancing plants
>> to absorb metal in the soil.
>> It's a tricky thing cuz we need it. We
need all these met metals and minerals.
>> Yeah.
>> But we would love if we could do it
without the mining bit.
>> Absolutely. You're completely correct.
>> So, how did you discover this?
>> When I was working on mining, there were
plants uh growing uh on top and around a
mine
>> and yeah, I met with my co-founder
Delhi. She's a doctor in plant bio
technology
>> and she told me oh actually I worked on
this plants I worked on this phenomena
this genetic phenomena of
hyperaccumulation
>> hyperaccumulation
>> hyper accumulation exactly the fact that
some plants can absorb this metal but
store it as well and at the beginning we
were very skeptical because we thought
it it sounds a bit like sci-fi.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's probably like sci-fi.
>> Can we go to the and look at something?
>> Yeah, absolutely.
[music]
>> I'm after you. Well, I don't know where
I'm going. [laughter]
>> This [music] way. Yeah. Sorry. This way.
>> Sorry.
>> Have you been here before?
>> Sorry. No, it's outside. I've been here
before. Sorry. [laughter]
>> Hey guys. How are you?
>> Tell you. Hi.
>> Pleasure to meet you.
>> Nice to meet you. What was your first
thought when you met him?
>> I thought this individual is equally as
crazy as I am. And we can actually
>> wow
>> and we can actually make this work. We
realized very early on that each of us
brings a different aspect to the story
and it's very complimentary. It's very
rare that you get a plant scientist and
a mining engineer to sit at the same
table and basically bridge the both in
both of the sectors.
>> F was telling me the whole story and now
um
>> the science.
>> Now the science.
>> So what kind of plant is this? This is a
plant that is called brea and it's a
plant that is endemic to South Africa
and it's a hyperreulated plant.
>> They are like very few in the world.
>> Yeah.
>> They have this awesome capacity of
actually taking up the metal from the
roots and into the rub by us.
>> So basically the first step for us was
because this plant no one cared about.
>> That's not true. I think
>> it's sad but it's not a crop. It's a
weed. So basically science did not
really care about this plant. So when we
started with this project, we started
from scratch. No one actually looked
inside the plant to understand why
genetically does it do that. It's a very
special phenomena.
>> Oh, now this plant we genetically
enhanced already. So what you're saying
is an actual mutant.
>> It's a mutant.
>> Yeah. We isolated the genes that were
responding when there is nickel in the
soil. And then we started basically gen
this is where the genetic manipulation
starts.
>> So you've did the genetic manipulation.
you've now gone to a point where you can
you've you've boosted it and you might
be able to boost it even more.
>> We're trying to make it more efficient
and faster. So the function already is
there. We're trying to enhance it.
>> And is this something that will continue
to enhance?
>> You can
>> or is there a natural limit?
>> I'll tell you something that is very
funny. We for the past 3 years we have
been trying to kill this plant with
nickel concentration. We never managed.
>> Oh wow.
We have already increased the plant's
performance three to four folds from
what it originally was doing.
We actually look forward to further
optimize [music] our plants. So that's
where the science keeps going.
So here is the step where we are
multiplying the plants. This is where
you scale up the propagation to make
more and more copies of those
genetically enhanced lines.
>> What's your name?
>> Bonnie.
>> Yeah.
>> Nice to meet you. What are you working
on?
>> We take the stem cutings of a plant
which grows in our greenhouse.
>> We grow them into making more plants out
of each of these cutings.
>> Actually, if you want, you can.
>> But this is this is like what can I try?
>> Doing this.
>> Yes, please. Still pretty.
>> Can I Should I wear a lab coat [music]
just to look a little more
>> This is too small.
>> It's too small, I think.
>> Try this one.
>> Yep.
>> Yeah,
>> it works. I This is This is perfect.
[music]
>> Okay.
>> All right. So, what do I do?
>> You hold the plant with one clamp.
>> Oh,
>> yes. Yeah. And you have to cut on the
node.
>> Okay.
>> You hold it with one hand and you cut
with the other.
>> Well, this is
>> Yeah, you can put force.
>> I don't want to kill this plant.
>> Oh, it's fine. And then
>> yeah, you can stick it a bit in the gel.
>> What is this gel?
>> This gel that we are putting the plant
on, it has different.
>> It has different compounds.
>> Get in there.
>> And that's it. If you look there, this
combination in the gel is asking the
plant to form a shoot. So, we're capable
of propagating it a lot. So, we can go
from one plant to 100 million in a year.
And we're going to go put them somewhere
where they can grow.
>> Well, go plant.
>> Uh, not yet.
>> Oh, okay.
>> I'm going to give you another
>> another lab coat. Kind of looks like
we're going to a rave or something.
[laughter]
>> So, you have the sticky mat and this is
just to remove anything from the bottom
of our feet.
>> Okay.
>> So, we don't bring anything inside. And
then you'll have rooms that look like
this, which are growth chamber rooms.
Basically, this is where we give them
the right light signals to trigger the
growth so they become green and strong
and all of that.
>> Just put them anywhere we want. Yeah.
[music]
>> How much nickel can you produce? Now,
>> we're capable of extracting up to 2.5
tons of nickel per hectare per year.
2.5 [music]
tons of nickel is enough to produce 60
to 80 electric vehicle batteries with
far less land disruption, waste [music]
and carbon emission than the traditional
mines.
>> Oh wow.
>> Yeah,
>> the numbers are mindboggling.
>> Yeah, there are a lot.
>> Are there any negative impacts on the
fields where you're planting them?
>> We plant on so that are naturally
polluted in nickel. They are too
contaminated for agriculture. So
basically agriculture cannot work there
and they are too diluted for mining to
work there. So basically this is our
sweet spot and we're taking these
sources that are polluted that are
causing an issue and turning them into
something valuable.
[music]
>> After sprouting in the lab, the plants
are moved to Gene's greenhouse.
>> Yes, your chariot awaits you, sir.
Let's go.
We need to produce this [music]
in a very cheap way. Yeah. Access to
cheaper nickel would potently [music]
impact the price of cars. It could be
cheaper and much better for the
environment. This is what we're trying
to prove.
So, here's the greenhouse.
Uh and we have Danish uh somewhere. Hey
Danish, how are you?
>> I'm h
>> Hello. Hi.
>> Hi.
>> And this is uh these are the plants.
>> Yeah, these are the plants.
>> Exactly.
>> Here we just executed a new experiment
with some gamar bombardment. We
increased the uptake of uh heavy metals.
>> These look quite big compared to the one
I saw in the other. In nature it's like
below more than 12 ft 16 ft like so
tall.
>> Oh wow.
>> They go up to 3 m.
>> It's very big.
>> Bigger than in this greenhouse.
>> Have you always liked plants?
>> Yeah basically like I have a masters in
plant breeding and horiculture.
>> Where's that passion from?
>> I belong from Pakistan and in Pakistan I
was living in a countryside. We have a
huge fields. I was going to the fields
with my grandfather and after that I
joined this as a passion and field and
now I am here.
>> And now you you're a scientist in plant.
>> Yeah.
>> What is this?
>> Uh basically like uh if I want to test
the nickel concentration to know about
like uh what are the uptake? So I use
this one.
>> You have a strip like PH paper. You can
see this one.
>> You can just break this.
>> Yeah.
>> Leave
>> and then you have to put here like this.
You can see. Yeah, approximately like
200.
>> So this is really good. That's what
you're saying.
>> You saw the plants with VIP. They have
more than thousand.
>> Did you say VIP?
>> Yeah. Very important plants by myself.
>> So now we're going to call Sylvia,
[music] director of operation. She's
based in Johannesburg. And there's our
field there. [music] So, she's going to
show you basically the actual locations.
>> Hello.
>> My name is Nikolai. Nice to meet you.
>> Nice to meet you, too. We're in a
nursery.
>> In a nursery.
>> Where we growing our plants. Do you want
to see?
>> I I would love to see. Yes, please.
>> Okay. I'm going to turn the camera
around with you. Okay. So,
here we've got our little babies growing
>> all the seedlings
>> to plant them out in the field after
winter. So this year will start small
and then it will keep on ramping up
every year.
>> Opening up a mine [music] takes enormous
amount of time 12 to 15 years on
average.
When you operate with plants you don't
need to build a huge infrastructure that
are very complex. Because of that you
can operationalize a field in one to two
years. When it comes to places where we
could do that, [music] we estimate that
there are 30 to 40 million hectares that
are very high potential.
>> You'd like to see the finished product.
>> Oh my god, I was going to ask you about
this.
>> Is this nickel?
>> Yes, it is nickel sulfates. Exactly.
>> Nickel sulfate.
>> So, how do you get this out of the
plants?
>> You process the biomass like burning the
biomass. Okay.
>> You have an ash. In this ash you have
very high level of concentration of
nickel which is around 18 to 20%. Okay.
And then after you sell this
concentrate.
>> Yes.
>> To uh smelters
>> basically the infrastructure that's
already in place for mines.
>> Exactly.
>> Right.
>> Yeah.
>> So from there on it's the same process.
>> And then this is what comes out of this
after this melting.
>> Yes. Exactly. It's a crystal of nickel.
>> Yes.
>> That is used directly in batteries in
lithium ion batteries. So this is nickel
sulfate which we get from the market. So
you can see they are almost same.
>> So this is if if I wanted to buy this.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's the same.
>> How exciting was it the first time you
received this?
>> So the moment that we managed to get
this, we were all shouting etc. We were
so excited because when you can do it
once, it means like it's possible.
>> Yeah.
>> It's all about the plans.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
[music]
By 2030, Genomine's aimed to produce
150,000 tons of nickel a year, enough
for 2 million electric vehicle
batteries.
>> We're [music] trying to change the way
people think about mining. So when they
think about where is this nickel coming
from, they have in their mind fields
[music] that are green and it's
beautiful and you say, "Okay, this is
mining rather than a mountain being
destroyed. [music]
You want to have these stories, you want
to share this. You meet people that have
a passion, [music] that do something
that they believe in, and that is
exciting. That inspires you.
So trust [music] these people. Have
hope. Humans can do everything.
>> We're trying to leave [music] the world
better than what we found it in.
And I think this is our duty, not only
as scientists, but also as human beings.
>> And that's a wrap. Um Oh, goodbye.
[singing and music]
So
[singing]
no daddy
so fake
something.
[music]